Documents Do you Need when Traveling to Another Country :

  * You can even consider having multiple documents such as your passport, national ID card or driver’s licence. 

  * Health Travel Documents

  *Travel Itinerary Details
   Flight ticket details, accommodation reservations,

  *Medical and Travel Insurance Proof
   .Insurance for medical expenses and
   .Insurance for trip cancelations.

1)Passport
In order to travel and/or move abroad, you will need an official, government-issued passport. This document is the single most important thing you’ll need when moving internationally. A government-issued passport certifies the owner’s identity and citizenship. Most countries do not allow travelers to enter without an official passport. If you and your family do not currently have a passport and plan to move, we recommend starting the application process as soon as possible. Obtaining a passport can take anywhere from a few weeks to a few months. To apply for a passport with the U.S. Department of State, you’ll need to provide evidence of U.S. citizenship, an ID and a recent photo. For more information about applying for a passport, check here.

2)Visa
Moving to a new country? In addition to a passport, you will most certainly need a visa. A visa is an official travel document placed inside your passport that allows the traveler to remain in a certain country for a specific purpose and for a specific amount of time. The visa is authorized and issued by the country where you wish to live, work and/or visit. Most countries offer a variety of visas. Examples of different types of visas include a short-stay visa, a residence visa and a tourist visa. To find out more information about obtaining a visa, be sure to contact the consulate office of the destination country that you wish to move to. 

3)Work Permit
While a visa may allow you to enter a certain country, it probably won’t allow you to work there. Many countries require that newcomers obtain an official work permit in order to be officially employed in the country. If you’re moving to a new country for work, your employer should be able to assist with getting you a work permit (or at least be able to point you in the right direction). For more information about obtaining a work permit, be sure to contact the country’s consulate office in the U.S.

4)Birth Certificate
When moving to a new country, it’s important that you keep all essential documents with you during the relocation. This includes your original birth certificate as well as several official copies. A birth certificate is an official document issued at birth to identify a person’s name, gender, birthday, birthplace and parents. If you can’t find your birth certificate at home, we recommend checking with your parents. There’s a good chance they have a copy.

5)Medical records
Whether you’re moving abroad for a long period of time or for just a short while, you’re going to need to bring all medical records with you. After all, you never know when an illness will strike. When traveling abroad, it’s wise to not take chances with your health. Once you’ve moved to the new country, we recommend establishing a doctor as soon as possible. When packing copies of your medical records, don’t forget to also include all immunization records for you and your family. A record of immunizations may be required for you to work and/or go to school in your new country. 

6)School records
Speaking of school, make sure to bring copies of all school records with you when moving internationally. This is especially important when moving with school age children. Typically, a child’s school will need transcripts with grades and test scores. Other important school records to bring with you when you move include teacher notes, letters of recommendation and immunization records. 

7)Social Security cards
Don’t forget your social security card when you move! A copy of this nine-digit number issued by the U.S. government should be kept in a safe place throughout your travel. If you need a replacement card, simply gather all necessary documents, complete your application with the Social Security Administration and submit your paperwork. For more information about replacing your Social Security card, check here.


 